# Feedback Ingestion REST API

This repository contains three codebases :

- The code for setting up the AFC REST API, for ingesting and 
- The code for simulating traffic to the AFC API

## About this API

This API allows a user to query a REST API for posting or retrieving feedback information. Every request made to the API is registered into a log system which can also be consulted.
### Endpoints

This REST API features 5 simple endpoints, enabling 'GET' or 'POST' requests to retrieve or create data:

- `/` is the health check. It returns a set message if the API is up.
	- Supported operations : 'GET'
	- No JWT or specific role required.
- `/afc/login/{role}` is the login. It  allows a user to be authenticated according to a role ('producer' or 'consumer') and returns a JWT token to access other endpoints.
	- Supported operations: 'POST'
	- JWT required.
	- No specific role required.
- `/afc/api` allows a user to post feedback *or* retrieve all feedback data, ordered from latest to earliest.
	- Supported operations: 'POST' and 'GET'.
	- JWT required.
	- "producer" or 'master' role required for 'POST' operation.
	- "consumer" or 'master' role required for 'GET' operation.
-  `/afc/api/{watermark}` allows a user to retrieve all feedback data created after a certain timestamp.
	- Supported operations: 'GET'
	- JWT required.
	- 'consumer' or 'master' role required.
- `/afc/logs` allows a user to consult the logs generated by operations performed on the API (POST or GET). 
	- Supported operations: 'GET'
	- JWT required.
	- 'consumer' or 'master' role required.
### Roles

There are three roles required for this API to function:
- Consumer role - can create data through 'POST' requests. This role is more appropriate for pushing data onto the API.
- Producer role - can retrieve data through 'GET' requests. This role is more appropriate for data ingestion through the API.
- Master role - can access every endpoint without restraint. This role is made for all purposes, including testing and debugging.

### Data format

Strict data models are enforced at each endpoint for 'POST' requests. Not respecting these formats will lead to an error on the user side:
#### Credentials

    email: str

    password: str

#### Feedback

    username: str

    feedback_date: str

    campaign_id: str

    comment: str

Feedbacks can be passed as an array of, or a single JSON object(s).

## Setup

### Install requirements

Execute the following command in the root folder:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Set environmental variables

Create a .env file in `.` the root folder . There, you should define the master, consumer and producer credentials along with a secret using the following variables:

```
API_PASSWORD

API_CONS_PASSWORD

API_PROD_PASSWORD

API_SECRET


API_EMAIL

API_CONS_EMAIL

API_PROD_EMAIL


#MODE=local

#MODE=container
```
## How to run (Local)

These instructions are for running the API without connecting to the internet or containerization. This will make the API unreachable from other devices. Requests to the API in this state are done through Localhost only.

### Set .env MODE to 'local'

```
MODE=local
```
### Initialize the mongoDB database

For running the application locally, you need an instance of mongoDB running on port 27017. If you do not have a mongoDB application installed, use Docker Desktop and initialize a mongoDB container with the following commands:

```
docker pull mongo:latest
docker run --name mongodb-container -d -p 27017:27017 mongo:latest
```
### Run the application

Run the application from the `./api/` folder, using the following command:

```
uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 80
```

After this, your application should be running on port 80, allowing for HTTP requests on http://localhost:80.
## How to run (Container)

These instructions are for running the API on a container along with a MongoDB and a Ngrok container for exposing the API to the internet. Requests to the API can be made from the Ngrok endpoint or Localhost.
### Set .env MODE to 'container'
```
MODE=container
```
### Run the application

Run docker-compose from the root folder:

```
docker-compose up
```

After some time, the mongoDB, Ngrok and fast_api containers should be running in a single network. The API should be running on port 8080.
### Find the custom Ngrok endpoint

In free edition, Ngrok generates a random endpoint by default, which has to be retrieved from http://localhost:4040/. Alternatively, by running the following code from the root folder:

```
python get_ngrok_endpoint.py
```

This will print the Ngrok endpoint for the currently running API.

## Simulate traffic
Traffic simulation is done through the api_pusher at the following Git repository: https://github.com/Prjprj/api_pusher

### Configuration
```ini
[API]
endpoint_url = http://random-ngrok-url.app

[API_AUTH]
active = True
username = enteryourproducerusername
password = enteryourproducerpassword
